Lab System Calls - Using gdb

1. Looking at the backtrace output, which function called syscall()?

Answer:
The backtrace shows that usertrap() called syscall().

The relevant call stack was:

#0 syscall() at kernel/syscall.c
#1 usertrap() at kernel/trap.c


2. What is the value of p->trapframe->a7 and what does that value represent?

Answer:
The value of p->trapframe->a7 was 0xf, which is decimal 15.

According to kernel/syscall.h, system call number 15 corresponds to SYS_open.
The a7 register stores the system call number requested by the user process.
Therefore, the current process was requesting the open() system call.


3. What was the previous mode that the CPU was in?

Answer:
The previous CPU mode was user mode.

The CPU is currently executing the system call handler in supervisor mode, but
the SPP bit in the sstatus register is 0. An SPP value of 0 indicates that the
trap originated from user mode.


4. Write down the assembly instruction at which the kernel panicked.
Which register corresponds to the variable num?

Answer:
The kernel panicked at address 0x80001cf8.

The faulting assembly instruction was:

lw a3, 0(zero)

This instruction attempts to load a 32-bit value from virtual address 0 into
register a3.

Register a3 corresponds to the local variable num.


5. Why did the kernel crash?

Answer:
The statement:

num = *(int *)0;

dereferences a null pointer and attempts to read an integer from virtual
address 0.

Virtual address 0 is not mapped in the xv6 kernel address space. Therefore,
the load instruction generated a load page fault. The value of stval was 0x0,
which confirms that the faulting virtual address was zero. The scause value
0xd indicates a load page fault.

Because the page fault occurred while the CPU was executing in kernel mode,
kerneltrap() treated it as a fatal kernel error and called panic.


6. What is the name of the process that was running when the kernel panicked?
What is its process ID?

Answer:
The process name was:

init

Its process ID was:

1